# Masakhane Meeting Notes: 28/10/2019

- Time: 18:30
- Number of Attendees: 15
- Notes taken by Jade Abbott

## News

- Winner's were announced! https://zindi.africa/competitions/ai4d-african-language-dataset-challenge

## Data

*Masabata* 
_Hansard_ 
- Parliamentary data, parliamentary statements, questions to the cabinet
_Non-hansard_
- Translated into all official languages
- Collecting. 
- Goes back to 2015. 

- The non-parliamentary are in all languages. Most parliamentary are just in Afrikaans. Pioriritize the data for all languages
- Masabata going to chase up with New Africa Books
- Masabata and Laura and/or Ari going to meetup to discuss the data and the best way to get it. 

*Sackey*
- KiSwahili - Sawa Corpus. Got in touch with the professors. Agreed to send the data! Extremely comprehensive, but not allowed to publish!!! 
- Ghollah - Has Parliamentary data of Tanzania. Needs lots of processing. 
- Sackey & Waziri & Ghollah to communicate via slack

*Gabriel*
- A linguist from Nigeria who is working in Tiv. He is keen to contribute datasets
- Jade to Introduce to Olabiyi
- Iroro and Gabriel to chat. 


### Milestones

Here is the first draft of the milestones: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fPmxVx4Lru8jd6ee7LsDZLlUZ-726_cNX0vRMZbY4YY/edit
Everyone is encouraged to add their thoughts/concerns/ideas!

ICLR
Things that were discussed/questions asked: 
- The format of ICLR workshop - to be cleared next week
- We might write a small "in progress" paper for Masakhane on all the results we have at that point. 
- We highly recommend as many people as possible try submit to either AfricaNLP or to PML4D.
- WE HAVE A MONTH!
- People who have offered to assist with writing and discussing ideas: Julia, Bernhardt, Laura, Jade
- Blessing, Espoir, Salomon, Julia, Laura, Ari are keen to assist in writing the big paper
- Iroro is thinking of writing a paper! 






