# Meeting Minutes

Jeanne pointed out some data problems. She noted that there were something English sentences where there were meant to be Setswana translations. 
She also noticed a couple of messy tokens. 

Jade's suggestion: For now, sample about 100 of them and see if it occurs. If not, then it's probably small enough to be ignorable
Idea: Someone find a language detector for South African languages at least (I think Bernhard Duvenhage built one).

Abdullah asked what the "4000" number is for the BPE tokenization. 
Jade: It's the number of BPE tokens one should create. 

Vukosi reported that he is asking for HANSARDS for multiple languages but apparently they only translate from other languages to english and not vice versa. Jade recommended SaDiLAR data for Xitsonga.

Alp joined to find out if we'd heard from EthioNLP. We hadn't so Jade is chasing up. 
Alp also wanted to know about running the notebook on a server. Jade recommended we download it as a .py and run that instead. 

There was a question about how incorporating external data fits into the project. The answer: Please do! In fact, it is encouraged. Note: It MUST just be open source.  

Blessing asked a question about website scraping. Vukosi highlighted that news websites have started changing terms and conditions to not allow scraping. Blessing suggested he could try contact the website to ask for permission - Vukosi offered to read over the request/letter to increase the possibility of it getting accepted. 

There was a bug in the most recent version of the notebook. It's fixed now. 
A note on validation_freq based on screen-sharing session with Abdullah, quoted from JoeyNMT documentation: 

```
How often should I validate?

Depends on the size of your data. For most use-cases you want to validate at least once per epoch. Say you have 100k training examples and train with mini-batches of size 20, then you should set validation_freq to 5000 (100k/20) to validate once per epoch.
```

Jade worked with Musie to get Amharic PR in - first official result which can be used as an example for future PRs. Screen sharing sessions via zoom worked really well
