# Masakhane Meeting Notes: 05/03/2020

- Time: 19:00
- Number of Attendees: 8
- Notes taken by Jade Abbott


## Ideas for Encouraging Participation

- Jade's idea of "motivators" - She's making a list of inactive participants and assigning motivators 
- Salomon suggested we start local meetups - Jade and Salomon to start an idea's document on this - the idea being that people can start them in whatever way suits them and we could provide a "template" or "tips". 

## Data

- Espoir - recently found a friend working on Lingala translation. He's going to bring more data. 
- Espoir chatting to Salomon about maybe asking his friend for Tshiluba data
- Ari is making progress on parliament data! 
- Bona has found a professor to help to translate! 
- Wilheilmina is working on Damara but there is no bible data. Musie helping scrape some bible songs. The one on the GitHub is generic, but scrapes only the bible. 

##  Upcoming Submissions

- [WiNLP](http://www.winlp.org/) - Deadline - April 10, 2020 - Everyone who submitted to AfricaNLP should also submit to WiNLP. Amazing workshop!

- [EMNLP](https://2020.emnlp.org/) - Main conference - Submission Deadline: May 8, 2020

Jade asks for ideas of what else we should include in that paper. 
Bernard's suggestions:
- Correlation between BLEU score and user rating of quality
Jade had spoken to Graham about this before who wanted to do a webinar on qualitative analysis on translation. 

Jade figured we could add to Kevin's interface
- Bernard: If you record user rating, record person's email and qualification. 

Espoir brought up that we need to clean up the GCP machine - running low on disk space. Jade suggested we put things onto GCP. 

## ICLR

Chris and Bona's questions:
- How to make paper camera-ready? Jade showed them which comment to remove and to add authors
- Are posters part of camera-ready submission? Nope
- Funding updates? None as of yet!

## Open Floor

- Bernard wondering if Masakhane will expand to other tasks. Jade says yes, this idea has been tossed around a fair amount.
- Jade mentioned the logistic challenges, but she imagines it'll start going down at the Sauti Yetu Unconference
- Bernard noted how valuable the encoder models inside of our translation models are since they are actually language models.
- Jade noted that we should try train a classifier using the encoders
