# Masakhane Meeting Notes: 23/04/2020

- Time: 19:00
- Number of Attendees: 30
- Notes taken by Jade Abbott

## Progress Update

- **Jade** announced we reached a milestone at the #AfricaNLP workshop.
- In the course of the week, Masakhane became the home of the broader AfricaNLP community. 

## Data

- **Olabiyi** - His data and results are on the way
- **Allahsera Tapo** - Asked about multiple translations for a single sentence. Jade suggested that repeat the source sentence, with the multiple translations 
- **Bonaventure** 
    - Looking to find people to help transcript the COVID data. 
    - BBC Africa are interested in having further conversations about data. 
- **Allahsera** - Asked if anyone had used a specific tool that takes audio files and attempts speech to text. (If anyone remembers what it was, please post it here!)
- **Keith** - asked about strategies for handling PDFs. 2 tools people use PyPDF5 and. Keith will chat to Vukosi to find out if he's found anything else 
- **Kat** 
    - Chatting to a start-up on LinkedIN. WOrking on conversational AI bots for East African languages. Collaboration. Data for a couple of languages. Luo, Kikuyu, Lingala, Zulu, etc. They've offered us data
    - Legal Advice: Got someone to look at legalities of scraping from news sites. If anyone is interested, please chat to Kathleen.
**David Adelani** 
- I found Two new parallel corpus from the Gourmet EU project
- English to Swahili -  with over 10 million sentences and 
- English to Amharic - https://gourmet-project.eu/data-model-releases/ 


## Project and Paper Updates

- **Bonaventure** - Submitted to WiNLP Current version to WiNLP
- **Julia & Elan** - have been working on the COVID survey translations. The goal is 2-fold: To translate the surveys (and help the movement) but also to try them on our models and understand how they're performing (fun error analysis!). Please can join #evaluation on slack to join in!

## How to open up Masakhane to other NLP tasks

- **David** suggests the writing up of HOW to create data for different tasks is a good step. Jade to upload templates so we can begin. It should be easy to start to gather data. 
- **Kathleen** - found an amazing data gathering tool that is easy to setup and has useful templates!
- https://github.com/doccano/doccano
- https://doccano.herokuapp.com/ 
- David said he'd look into it, and try get it set up.

## Other notes

- **Jade** remarked about potentially doing talks semi-regularly from people doing relevant work. This seemed to be received with positive sentiment
- **Ricky** is looking for a mentor to get him started with the notebook. He is looking at Berom from Central Nigeria. Would anyone be able to spend time getting him setup?

**Then Jade stopped taking notes, but if anyone can help expand these, that would be useful.**
