# Masakhane Meeting Notes: 23/01/2020

- Time: 19:00
- Number of Attendees: 16
- Notes taken by Jade Abbott


## Data

_Laura_
- Trying to meet up with Masabata but if keep! Ari to reach out instead.
- Trying to get textbook data. 

_Chris & Bonaventure_
- Struggling to get the data. Fongbe
- Researching online on proverbs
- Gonna do a ICLR paper
- Putting together. 

_Ayodele Olabiyi_
- Lots of work going on
- Spoke to Oreva - also collaborate

_Jamiil_
- Might require some scraping help.
- Espoir going to help Jamiil


## Paper writing Updates

- Iroro expanded the of paper scope - Looking at Edo languages in general. "NMT for Edo Languages"
- Chris & Bona - Fon (?) - native language in Benin. They're still going to gather more datasets. "NMT for Fonbe" - different models & attention mechanisms. The language has tonal differences. 
- Laura's students are all writing a paper on the 11 South African languages - they're doing weekly meetings to try do 11 South African languages!!! Optimize BPE parameters. Iroro enquires about the different strategies for tokenization. Turns out Yoroba is a very iscolating language so word level performed better! Jade considers that it would be cool to do a meta paper one day to introduce the world to all the languages and their properties and the strategies that work best on them
- Masakhane paper is focusing on (a) The Identified problems with NLP in Africa (b) How masakhane is helping that.
- Sackey and Kathleen are going to write one for the Zindi challenge
- Salomon is working on doing Image Captioning in Swahili!
- Wale is working on Hausa language - focusing on preprocessing and tokenizations. He's aiming for WiNLP 
- Jamiil would like to enjoy the Masakhane paper call - Jade invite to call. 


## Milestone Updates

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fPmxVx4Lru8jd6ee7LsDZLlUZ-726_cNX0vRMZbY4YY/edit# 

## Questions & Ideas

- Laura mentions that the spike in people joining the community was due to Khari Johnson's VentureBeat article (Showing the importance of discoverability of the community and resources). 
- Ari's wife travels Africa setting up Development related hackathons. Usually astronomy focus. Gonna convince her to do some masakhane things
- Iroro on Diacritic restoration: Use NFC instead of NFD. He has utilities to check which form it is, then convert it! Iroro to chat to Bona offline. 