# Masakhane Meeting Notes: 24/10/2019

- Time: 18:30
- Number of Attendees: 14
- Notes taken by Jade Abbott

## Data

### General

- Daniel looking into: English - Kimbundu & Mbundu. 
- Seid (of EthioNLP) & Alp got introduced! So hopefully they can share Tigrinya data!
- Alp said he'd make a repo for the Translator Without Borders Tigrinya data - Musie is going to take a look at it to check how good the quality is
- Alp is also speaking to the Travis foundation to get data.
- Masabata's request for South African parliamentary translations has gone to the Secretary of Parliament! Shes also contacted New Africa Books to see if we can collaborate - still awaiting a response!

### Misalignment in the Test set data

- Musie, Alp & Daniel noticed an alignment problem in the test sets
- Alp noticed that sometimes the source or targets were empty. He's going to PR a fix. Jade to send some github instructions to him. 
- Musie noticed that sometimes 1 line got split over multiple lines (must've had multiple lines in the source). Musie shared his screen so we could all understand what had happened. Jade recommended that, in the short term, we can fix the Amharic data, by using Musie's cleanly scraped JW.org data [from his repo](https://github.com/msquarme/Parallel-Corpus)
- Julia checked the data and learnt that the alignment oddities and empty lines are in the source data pulled from Opus. 
- Jade said she'd speak to the creators of the dataset again. She's also going to checkout the TMX file which would be robust to newlines.
- Ghollah said the BLEU score dropped between new and old repository. Julia and Jade believe that it's due to the change in test set. Ghollah wants to check it's not misalignment too.

### Crowd-sourcing Update
- Brian is busy porting his crowd-sourcing platform, cocohub.cc to our GCP account so that it has more capacity. Should be available next week. He'll be making a video to show people how to set up their own projects! Yay!
- Brian also suggested that Masakhane members can champion data translation for their language within their communities.
- Daniel is going to speak to his SIL connections in Senegal to see if they have translators.
- Alp is going to speak to TWB to see if he can get in touch with their Yoruba and Igbo translators. 
- Brian says that right now 74 draft projects on cocohub.cc with data, including Wolof! He says he'll likely need help publishing them after the migration. Jade to put him in touch with Opus team as perhaps they can help. 
- Ayodele has built a dataset for Yoroba and Igbo with volunteers from Data Science Nigeria and will be sharing it once he has trained a model with it! (HURRAH!)

## Compute Update
- Espoir Murhbazi has setup about 90% of a GCP machine. Woohoo! It has lots of memory and data and 1 GPU. He has installed JoeyNMT and has a notebook running on it. He has provided us with the IP so we can access it and is going to give the password to the notebook to Jade. Jade has a list of who gets  
- Espoir is still thinking about ways of automatically notifying someone when training is done or automatically turning the machine off when done to save on credits. 
- The process for getting access to the compute is to message Jade. She will give you access to the queue when the machine is not busy not busy. She is also happy to give access credentials directly to the machine in case you want to ssh into the machine and run it directly. And also happy to allow other people to create machines (Espoir maybe to create an image that other's can launch?). This is probably best since then we can scale horizontally and aren't waiting for each other!

#### Current list of people who need compute:
1. Vukosi (Jade to check if still needed!)
2. Salomon
3. Brian

## Techniques - the list

- Last week Daniel made a [fantastic list](https://github.com/masakhane-io/masakhane/blob/master/MT4LRL.md) about MT for LRL. Please feel free to contribute anything you come across!
- Jade briefly enquired about rule-based translation and how that works because someone PR'd it into our repo.
- Daniel provided an explanation of what it was to his knowledge: A linguistics based system that works by building up lexical senses. [Another example](http://lingtransoft.info/apps/flextrans)


## Questions

- We were asked a question about how tokenization works in African languages. He (if you're in our system, please ID yourself so I can update your name! Manikandan Sivanesan works in the search team for RedHat and was interested. Jade explained that many of the languages are agglutinative, and as a result byte-pair-encoding worked quite well. 

## Things we totally forgot to talk about

- Reading group. It's #readinggroup on the slack. Join if you want to get involved. Still figuring out a plan for it so come contribute and make suggestions
- A reminder for everyone to keep a research journal! Very useful later on


### Thanks everyone for the wonderful work! We're making amazing progress!!

### *If there is anything we've missed out - please feel free to add! :)*
