# Masakhane Meeting Notes: 28/10/2019

- Time: 18:30
- Number of Attendees: 
- Notes taken by Jade Abbott

## Data

*Ayodele*: Kathleen was at the bootcamp. 28 people in DSN NLP community. 
- Found people working on it the 4th major language in Nigeria - they're busy moving to voice (They have 42 hours of voice to text). They've all joined the slack channel #wazobia: yoroba, igbo, and hausa
- Goals: Create a repository that everyone contributes to. He's busy engaging with them to create a repository.. No copyright issue.  
- Share repository. NLP group. 
- The plan is for Oreva & Kelechi to contribute their dataset too.

- He thinks we should put together guidelines regarding datasets. 
- He had a uestions about how the Zindi challenge relates to Masakhane. Jade says that any dataset developed due to Masakhane can be submitted to Zindi.  
- He ashed about ICLR workshop details. Jade said we will need to ask Kathleen.

*Brian Muhia* 

- Extracted data from tanzanian parliamentary proceedings. Half way to good quality so wants to do some improvements. 
- He used Tesseract to OCR the text, which uses a very old language model. 
- It has 200 manuscripts and is monolingual
- He mentioned another project: Akinwale - who is extracting parliamentary data from Nigerian documents too.
- Another dataset: OpenSLR - text-to-speech. Aligned sentences, transcription of news articles. Will send link. 

### Crowd-sourcing Update

Phase 1: MS COCO. 
Phase 2: Everyone looking for their own datasets. Enable people to create own version of the project. 

- Busy writing a tool to make it easy to create the project. 
- Brian needs some engineers to do scripting - writing the tool itself. Half of a tutorial written. https://github.com/COCOHubCommunity/app-cocohub 

1. How to setup data
2. How to use the script. 
3. How to use the projec to create a community. Each project has it's own blob. 

How should people contribute: Contact brian on anything - prefer slack and github issues. Ask lots of questions. 
The idea is Brian would like to work with someone closely on a specific dataset they need labeled


## Compute Update
Jade has credentials and should send to Salomon 

## Questions

Brian Muhia: Anyone working on Voice and text-to-speech speak to Brian. 





